---
layout: post
title: NAPI
categories: linux
---


*(This post is in progress)*

# Why NAPI?

How does the driver notify the kernel when a frame is received?

Two main techniques are frequently used:

– **Polling**: kernel constantly checks whether the device received any thing.

– **Interrupt**: the driver instructs the hardware to generate a *hardware interrupt* when a frame is received. When the interrupt occurs, the kernel is interrupted and invokes a interrupt handler (registered by the driver) to process the frame. The handler queues the frame somewhere and notify the kernel about it.

NAPI is designed to improve performance:

– **Interrupt mitigation**: in high traffic load situation, there are too many interrupts from the hardware which interrupt the kernel. The time spent handling the interrupt may prevent the process of the received frames. This can lead to receive-livelock condition.

– **Packet throttling**: NAPI-compliant drivers can often cause packets to be dropped in the network adaptor itself, before the kernel sees them at all.

NAPI mixes interrupts and polling:

– When a new frame is received, a hardware interrupt is raised for that frame. The interrupt handler will disable interrupt for the device and then schedule kernel to process the frame.

– If new frames are received when kernel *has not* finished handing previous frames, it is not necessary to raise new interrupts. Instead the kernel will keep processing whatever in the device input queue, while the interrupts are disabled for the device. The kernel will re-enable the interrupts when the queue is empty.

# NAPI Implementation Guide

For each interrupt, the driver must allocate an `struct napi_struct` instance. Each `napi_struct` is initialized and registered before the net device, using `netif_napi_add()` function.

# NAPI APIs
*(To be continued)*

# References
*(To be updated)*

